### Chapter 17

JAKE WOKE FROM A DREAM THAT WAS HALF HANGOVER AND HALF NIGHTMARE, WONDERED IF HIS EYES FELT MORE UNCOMFORTABLE OPEN OR SHUT. HE THOUGHT VERY SERIOUSLY FOR A LITTLE WHILE, AND THEN RESOLVED THAT THIS WOULD BE THE BEGINNING OF A NEW AND FAR, FAR BETTER LIFE.

“There was a dim—but very dim—recollection of taking Helene home in a taxi. He wondered where they had left her car, and if they would ever find it again.

He remembered that there was something about today that was terribly important. Or had that been part of the dream he had just left behind him? No, he was sure—quite sure, anyway—that it was something real. Not a delusion. Delusion? What was that? Oh yes, it was what Tootz had. A cross between a delusion and a hallucination.

He wished he hadn’t waked up.

What was it that was so important? Something that made today different from all the other days in history, his history or the world’s. Something that he was going to do.

He wished he could remember what it was.

He was still trying to fix his mind on it when the telephone rang. It was Helene.

“Today we’re getting married, or had you forgotten?”

“I was just trying to work it into the schedule,” he said gallantly.

“I thought maybe you’d just remembered you already had a wife in St. Louis.”

“It isn’t St. Louis, it’s Allentown,” Jake said in a surprised voice, “but how did you know?”

“Maybe I’m just discouraged, but I have a feeling we’ll never get to Crown Point.”

“There’s no audition today,” Jake said, “and no shootings scheduled as far as I know. Anyway, nothing is going to interfere this time. Nothing. Do you get that? I’ll be over in,” he looked at his watch, “half an hour.”

He shaved, took a shower, and dressed, spending an extra thirty seconds on the selection of his tie.

Just as he was ready to leave there was a sudden knock at the door.
The door. He opened it and there stood Malone, a rakish bandage over one eye.

“The next time I travel, go on a tricycle,” the little lawyer said sourly. He came in and kicked the door shut. “Imagine how I felt when I saw that tree coming at us. Imagine how I felt when I couldn’t find any way of getting up to Brule. And imagine how I felt when you told me it had all been a waste of time. Now tell me why I didn’t need to find Goldman.”

“Somebody shot St. John’s client,” Jake said, “during the audition. Have you had breakfast?”

“Who shot him?”

“A man with a gun in his hand. Or maybe it was a woman. Have you had breakfast?”

“No. What happened?”

“Look here,” Jake said, “I’ve had enough of this. Helene and I are getting married today at Crown Point. I’m on my way to get her now. If you want to come to breakfast, I'll tell you about it on the way. If you don’t want to, you can go to hell.”

“A very kind invitation,” Malone said, “and welcome, too. And if you don’t know any better than to get married, it’s none of my business. Now tell me about this murder.”

By the time they had reached apartment 215, Jake had finished his story of the sudden death of the late Mr. Givvus, and the subsequent disposal of the body. Helene greeted them enthusiastically and invited Malone to go with them as a bridesmaid. Malone agreed but stated his refusal to wear a corsage, and began looking through the morning newspapers, while Jake and Helene quarreled over the process of coffee making and discussed what she might or might not have done with her car the night before.

At last the coffee was made, and Jake spread the newspapers out on the table.

The police were greatly concerned over the discovery of the late Mr. Givvus on a Lincoln Park bench. There were pictures of the bench, and of a policeman named Gadenski pointing to the exact spot where the body had been found. One story mentioned the fact that a copy of a Chicago newspaper had been found in the dead man’s lap, turned to a story concerned with downstate vice conditions. Another story gave the same fact, but stated that the newspaper had been turned to a picture of a Hollywood queen. Both stories treated the fact of the folded newspaper as being of extreme importance. But there was no hint of the fact that the late Mr. Givvus had been in Chicago to attend a radio audition.

“Thank God!” Jake said.

Malone scowled, spilling a little coffee on his cuff.

“I suppose you know you’ve committed a serious crime in moving the body.”

“Hell,” Jake said, “what would you have done? I’m hired to protect Nelle Brown’s reputation, one way or another. This was one of the ways. Suppose he’d been discovered in the client’s room where he’d gone to listen to a Nelle Brown secret audition?”

“Just the same,” the little lawyer said, “they put people in jail just for things like that.”

“Well damn it,” Jake said furiously, “What have we got a lawyer for? Put your mind on the train of thought that would have followed the discovery of the body. It was a secret audition. Why was a secret audition being held? Papa Goldman comes rushing back from Brule. His Nelle Brown giving a secret audition for another client! Could Nelle explain to him that she had to give the audition because St. John was blackmailing her? Either way, Papa Goldman would have had the best of reasons for refusing to re-sign her contract Friday night.”

“Good God,” Malone exploded, spilling the rest of the coffee, “two men have been murdered, and all you’re worrying about is getting Nelle’s contract re-signed.”

“All I’m worrying about,” Jake said, “is when we’re going to get to Crown Point and get married.”

“Suppose,” Malone said thoughtfully, “suppose someone remembers seeing Givvus going to the broadcasting studio.”

“No one did. He wasn’t the sort of guy you’d notice. Just a little, ordinary-looking guy.”

“Those are the sort of guys that always get noticed,” Malone observed. He sat thinking for a
Minute. “Anyway, if he was a little ordinary-looking guy, it’s damned funny somebody mistook him for St. John.”

“The light was poor in the client’s room,” Jake said.

“It couldn’t have been that poor.”

“The murderer has poor eyesight,” Helene suggested helpfully.

“Maybe he has,” Malone said, “maybe he has. You’ve got something there that you probably think is a clue. But we know he’s a damned good shot.” He drew a long breath. “If someone’s really trying to murder St. John, there may be a second attempt.” “I hope to God there is!” Jake said crossly.

“All right, but let’s get Nelle’s letters back from him first.”

“Let’s get me and Helene married first.”

“Let’s remember where my car is first,” Helene said.

“A fine thing,” Jake said indignantly. “I’m only marrying you because I like the car, and here you go and lose it.”

“If you could remember where we went last night, maybe I could remember where the car is.”

“All this is very interesting,” Malone said peevishly, “but don’t forget you’re mixed up in two murders, you’ve committed a crime that may land you in the jug, only God knows what’s going to happen next, and He in His infinite wisdom refuses to tell.” He rose, strolled to the window, and stood looking across the backyard litter of barrels, clotheslines, garbage cans, and tired cats. “I’m following a train of thought.”

They were silent for a few minutes.

“It goes like this,” Malone said, still looking out the window. “Not my train of thought, you understand. But a train of thought. It could become very popular, too.”

“What the devil are you talking about?” Jake demanded.

The little lawyer didn’t seem to hear him. “As Nelle Brown’s manager, Jake would find the death of the late Mr. Givvus very much to his advantage. We needn’t go too deeply into motives, save that there would be important financial ones. Anything over four bits cash money is an important financial motive these days. There would be friendship motives, too. An unselfish love motive might hit popular fancy, too.” He paused again.

“The late Mr. Givvus,” he went on thoughtfully, “was shot at some undetermined time, quite conceivably a time when Jake was on the loose around the corridors of the broadcasting studios. I mention this as another probably popular station at which a train of thought might pause.

“Finally,” he said, warming to his climax, “this damned dummox, Jake Justus, goes to work and moves the body, thus concealing the evidence of his crime.” He concluded with one magnificent gesture.

After a longish pause, he said, mildly, “This, Helene, leads up to the fact that if they hang Jake, you can still marry me.”

“But no,” she said in a dazed voice.

“Are you turning me down?” Malone inquired pleasantly.

“As I said before,” Jake remarked, “what have I got a lawyer for?”

“I’m just a lawyer,” Malone told him, “not a miracle man.”

“You’re a maniac,” Helene said angrily. “None of that is going to happen in anyone’s mind, and you know it.”

Malone shrugged his shoulders. “Suit yourself. The alternative train of thought, which leaves on another track, is that Nelle shot him and Jake moved the body to protect his client and his pal.”

“For all I know,” Jake said slowly, “that train may be the right one. But damn it, Malone, there’s no chance anyone will find out that Givvus was shot at the studios.”

Malone said, “A flier will tell you that a good landing is any landing you can walk away from. The same statement applies to good murders. But I have a dirty hunch this murder isn’t one you can walk away from.” “What’s to be done?” Jake asked.

“I’m gonna see a guy,” Malone said. “A police lieutenant by the name of Von Flanagan.”

“Come again?” Helene said.

“Von Flanagan,” Malone told her, “it’s his name. It was Flanagan and everybody kidded him so much about Flanagan being a good name for a cop that he went to court and had the Von tacked on.”

“He should have made it Von MacFlanagan."
"Hey," she commented. "Why do you want to see him?"

"I want to remark that I once knew a guy named Givvus and I wondered if this could be the one, which it will turn out it isn't, but meantime I'll find out just how much the police do know about the murder."

"Confessions of a nasty spy," Helene said. "And then?"

"We're going to get married," Jake said stubbornly. "Today."

Malone shook his head. "This first. Before I'll let you two go anywhere, I'm going to make very sure that no one is going to remember Mr. Givvus went to hear an audition yesterday afternoon. Then I'll speed you on your way. I'll even buy the flowers."

"You'll probably pick out a wreath," Jake said gloomily.

Malone found his hat where it had rolled under the davenport, brushed ineffectively at the dust on it, and said, "All I hope is that the day doesn't land you in a police station."

Helene gave a sudden yelp and sprang to her feet. "I've got it! I know!"

"What?" Jake demanded. "What is it?"

They stared at her hopefully.

"My car. I remember now where I left it."

"Oh hell," Jake said. "I thought you knew who'd murdered Mr. Givvus. Where is it?"

"I left it by the no parking sign in front of the Chicago Avenue Police Station," she said happily. "I remember thinking at the time, it would be such a good safe place for it!"

