### Chapter 19
## Uninvited and Unhinged

With good luck,” Malone said, “I can get him off with twenty years. I hope you’ll wait for him, Helene, he’s a nice fella.”

He had finished his description of the conference with Von Flanagan. Even Jake looked a little concerned.

The lawyer sighed. “Well, you’ve heard what Von Flanagan is going to do. Maybe we’d better get in ahead of him. I mean we’d better find out who murdered the late Mr. Givvus of Philadelphia. Yes, I think maybe we better had.”

There was a little silence.

“Mr. Givvus,” Malone said thoughtfully, “seems so perfectly the average successful citizen that it’s hard to believe he existed. I looked at his picture. An ordinary little guy. I looked up his life, courtesy of Von Flanagan’s department. He was a pretty good soapmaker. Member of a good second-rate club. Expensive house in a Philly suburb, probably a very architectural-looking house somewhat on the ornate side. Wife and two kids. Wife president of a garden club. Kids out of college, living on the old man. Girl friend who used to be a private secretary—not his private secretary, someone else’s. Shows the man had taste. Not much to live for though. Still, not much reason for anybody to shoot him.”

He paused, paced up and down the floor leaving little piles of cigar ash on the rug.

“Funny. Not much reason for anybody to shoot him. But somebody did.”

Another silence, a few more trips back and forth on the floor. In his strolling the little lawyer suddenly noticed the odd-shaped contraption of wood, leather, and rubber lying on the table. He picked it up, idly fiddled with it, half-unconsciously.

Suddenly the quiet was shattered by the sound of...
At the sound of a gunshot, Jake jumped. Helene screamed, and Malone dropped the contraption as though it had bitten him.

“What the hell,” he said dazedly, and again, “what the hell!”

“You shot off the sound effect,” Jake gasped as soon as words came back to him.

Malone picked it up, looked at it, experimented with it, and shot it off again, this time with less disastrous results, then looked questioningly and dubiously at Helene.

“It’s Krause’s sound effect,” Jake explained. “Helene stole it to conduct an experiment. She’s going to send it back.” He described the experiment and its results.

“So,” Helene added, “it must have been a gun with a silencer, and that means—"

“Wait a minute,” the lawyer said excitedly, “wait a minute.” He stared at them for a moment, walked to the window and looked out, picked up the sound effect and laid it down again, took out a cigar and lighted it, made two more turns up and down the room.

“Malone,” Helene said, near desperation in her voice, “what goes on?”

“I heard Nelle’s program last week,” Malone said, “and I heard about five minutes of the program that followed it. Jake, what was that program?”

“True Gang Stories, or some such title,” Jake said promptly.

“And didn’t you tell me the radio was going full blast in Paul March’s apartment when you walked in and found the body?”

“It was!” Jake said, a sudden light flickering in his eyes. “Hell’s bells, yes, you might be right. Last week’s Gang Stories script was full of shooting. No one would have noticed one more shot. Anyone who heard it would have assumed it was one of Krause’s sound effects coming over the air.”

Helene said, “Wonderful! What of it?”

Jake ignored her. “If that’s right,” he said, “it fixes the time of the shooting very nicely. Somewhere in the half-hour right after the Nelle Brown Revue.”

They stared at each other.

“But during the audition,” Helene began, “I mean, when Mr. Givvus was killed—how about the sound of the shot then?”

This time it was Jake who paced the floor. Halfway through the eighth lap, he paused suddenly and began looking around the room.

“Newspapers,” he said, “I want newspapers. Yesterday’s newspapers.”

Helene unearthed one from the wastebasket. He spread it out on the floor, found the radio page, ran a forefinger down the afternoon’s listings.

“Just before the audition,” he said slowly, “just a very few minutes before we got the audition underway, The Rider of the Rockies came on the air. The reception-room speaker was probably turned on for it. It—The Rider of the Rockies—has a standard opening.”

He paused for thought.

“It opens,” he said slowly, “with an Indian war whoop, a burst of galloping hoofbeats”—he produced a highly realistic sound of hoofbeats by patting his thighs with his cupped hands—”and a regular fusillade of gunshots. Boom-boom-tiddy-boom-boom-boom!” He grabbed the sound effect, shot it off a half-dozen times in rapid succession.

Before anyone had a chance to speak, there were running footsteps in the hall. Jake opened the door, stuck his head out, said, “It’s all right, Molly, it’s just me shooting at my girl,” and shut the door again. The footsteps went away.

“All of which means,” Malone said, “it didn’t need to be a gun with a silencer. The sound of the shot was covered in both cases.”

“Lovely,” Jake commented, “now all we need to know is who fired the shots.”

Malone sighed. “Here are some more trains of thought. First, that the same person committed both murders. That thought has two subdivisions: (a) that someone committed both murders thinking that Mr. Givvus was St. John, and (b) that someone committed both murders thinking that Mr. Givvus was Mr. Givvus. Then there is the thought that these are two different and totally unrelated crimes, with the same two subdivisions relating to the second murder: (a) that the murderer thought he was shooting St. John, and (b) that he thought he was shooting Mr. Givvus.”

“And subdivision (c),” Helene said,
"That it was Krause thinking Mr. Givvus had stolen his sound effect."

No one paid any attention to her.

“What I want to know now is,” Malone said, looking hopelessly around for his hat, “could this guy have been mistaken for St. John. I've seen his picture. I want to see St. John.” He finally located the hat under a crumpled newspaper beside the table. “Get on your horses. We’re going to call on St. John.”

They were down the stairs, in the car, and halfway down Michigan Avenue before Helene caught enough breath to ask, “But why are we going to see St. John?”

“I want to get a good look at him,” Malone told her.

“I’m better-looking than he is,” Jake said coyly.

“You are not,” Helene said. “St. John is a good-looking guy. Dignified. Impressive. English tweeds and a curved-stem pipe, and a hunting dog curled at his feet before the fireplace.”

“He has bunions,” Jake said. “Don’t forget St. John believes you’re my confidential secretary.”

“A confidential secretary,” Malone said scornfully, “in a simple little gray linen dress that’s a Paris import.”

“How do you know a Paris import when you see it?” Helene asked, turning into Wacker Drive.

Malone said irritably, “Ask my secretary. She pays my private bills for me out of my personal account.” He sniffed. “Well, if St. John wonders about the clothes Jake’s secretary is wearing, you can think of the answer.”

"I'll tell him my lawyer buys her clothes for her,” Jake said.

The usual collection of hopeful actresses, actors, and scriptwriters were waiting to see the great John St. John, but the red-haired girl at the switchboard beamed at Jake and sent the three in without waiting.

St. John seemed pale and very tired.

“Sleep well?” Jake inquired pleasantly, sinking into a comfortable red-leather chair. He admired the purplish swelling on St. John’s slender and aristocratic nose.

“Excellently,” St. John said. He didn’t look it.

Malone looked at him closely, walked around the desk and looked at his profile, walked back and stared at him full face, then took a folded newspaper from his pocket and stared at a picture of the late Mr. Givvus.

“No, Jake,” he said, “I think you’re wrong. No one could have mistaken Mr. Givvus for this guy.”

“Even in a dim light?” Jake asked.

“Even in the dark,” Malone said. “Look at this guy’s forehead, and then look at Mr. Givvus. St. John here has a wave of hair that comes down this way, and Givvus was half bald. St. John has a long, thin, horsy face, and Givvus was almost round-faced.”

“Maybe you’re right,” Jake said, “but it was an idea anyway.”

“They don’t look anything alike,” Helene said. “But there still doesn’t seem to be any motive for anybody shooting Mr. Givvus.”

St. John cleared his throat delicately. “I don’t mind your using my office for a conference room,” he said pleasantly. “But I was under the impression you came up here to see me.”

“We did,” Malone said, “it just slipped my mind for the moment. How many people knew that your client, Mr. Givvus, was having a secret audition yesterday?”

St. John raised his right eyebrow half an inch. “Wouldn’t it be safer to let the murder of Mr. Givvus rest in peace? After all, I’m the only person who seems to have lost anything by it, and God knows, I’m willing to let the whole thing drop.”

“I don’t want to just let it drop,” Malone said. “I want to see it buried. That’s why I asked the question.”

“Well,” St. John said thoughtfully, “well, there was Nelle—and these two people, of course.” He nodded toward Jake and Helene. “In addition—Oscar, Schultz, and Ross from the broadcasting company’s sales department. Yesterday I told Ross that my client didn’t show up for the audition at the last minute. He sympathized with me and, as far as I know, he believed me.”

“How about Lou Silver?” Jake asked. “And the band boys and the cast?”

“None of them knew who the audition was for.”

“Marvelous,” Jake said. “A scene beautifully set for murder.”
Just as if it had been planned.”

“Are you insinuating anything?” St. John asked in a perfectly expressionless voice, raising the other eyebrow.

“No,” Jake said nastily, “should I be?”

“Never mind,” Malone said. “Look here, St. John. You’re positive no one else knew he was going to be there? It’s damned important.”

“Positive,” St. John said wearily, slipping off one shoe under the desk. “I met him at the elevator myself and showed him into the client’s room. Outside of the elevator man, no one saw him, and those elevators are carrying up hundreds of people all day long.”

“Well then,” Malone said, “it’s fairly certain that no one will find out Givvus was shot in the client’s room, and his body moved to Lincoln Park. That’s all I was worrying about.”

“Of course,” St. John said icily, “murder is murder, and moving a body may be a serious offense.”

“So is withholding evidence,” Malone said, picking up his hat. “You aren’t in the clear either. But I don’t give a hoot who murdered the guy. I’m not on the police force. My business is keeping or getting people out of trouble. I’m good at it, too. Any time you are involved in a murder, St. John, here’s my card.”

He nodded to Jake and Helene, and they left together. St. John’s secretary passed them in the doorway, carrying a pile of scripts and a handful of telegrams, and as the door closed, they could hear St. John’s tired and harassed voice saying, “Oh God, why do I have to look after everything—"

“Poor guy,” Helene murmured.

“We didn’t find out much,” Malone said, “but we and St. John seem to have each other nicely blockaded. He can’t tell the world about the letters Nelle wrote Paul March, because if he did, we could tell the world about Givvus being murdered in the client’s room, and get him in a heluva jam. That item also works the other way. So right now nobody can make the first move.”

“Never a dull moment with the Nelle Brown Revue,” Jake commented. “But it would simplify everything if somebody would shoot St. John. Maybe if we wait long enough, Essie St. John will. Now let’s me and Helene go to Crown Point and get married. This looks like a nice day for it.”

