### Chapter 20

I’m going home and change my dress first,” Helene complained. “If I’m really going to get married, I’ve got to dress up for it.”

Malone said, “I can get you married at Crown Point any time up to midnight. Helene can change her dress, we’ll have dinner, and I’ll go along and get you married. I’ll be the best man and bridesmaid all at once. I'll even buy the gin.”

“All right,” Jake said with a long sigh, “but I’m beginning to have a feeling the wedding will be held in the old people’s home.”

They drove back to Erie Street. In Helene’s apartment, they found Nelle and Baby sitting side by side on the davenport.

“The door was open,” Nelle explained, “so we came right in. Helene, this is Baby. Baby, this is Helene. We just dropped in to find out if you were really going to get married today.”

“That’s the intention,” Jake said. He saw a speculative gleam in the little lawyer’s eye and had an uncomfortable premonition that the plans were due for at least one more postponement.

“I’m glad you dropped in,” Malone said happily. “There’s just time for us all to have a drink together before taking off for Crown Point.” He and Helene vanished into the kitchenette and began concocting a long, cool drink composed largely of gin.

Jake settled down in an easy chair and looked at Baby. Thank God, he thought, he wasn’t one of the pretty boys. Good-looking enough, as far as that went.

But not handsome. He didn’t seem to care whether he was good-looking or not. Probably didn’t even know. Rather boyish-looking, Jake decided, and wondered if Nelle was the first important romance in the young man’s life.

“No,” Baby was saying to Helene, “radio doesn’t seem glamorous to me. It’s a lot of hard work. But I like it.”

Baby would like hard work, Jake thought, and h
He’d do it, too. He wasn’t another Paul March, with ability, but getting by on the strength of his personal charm. By some miracle, Nelle had picked wisely this time.

“Did you ever know a man in radio named Paul March?” Helene asked very innocently. “This used to be his apartment.”

Baby wrinkled his brow a little. Jake was glad he was looking away from Nelle’s too-expressionless face. “Paul March. Yes, I did. I did some work for him on a daytime serial a few months ago. He does nice work. I never knew him very well.”

It sounded genuine enough.

Malone led the conversation away from Paul March, and Jake went on thinking about Nelle Brown and Baby. He was trying to foresee how it would end. Baby was taking it hard, that was obvious. A lot of gin would flow under the bridgework, but it would be a long, long time before Baby would forget Nelle Brown. Too bad. But what about Nelle? Jake sighed. Somehow he had the feeling that the ending would be very, very sad.

Malone was talking about the mysterious murder of a Mr. Givvus on a Lincoln Park bench.

Baby’s eyes brightened. “Say, I used to work for him. Never thought of it before, but he’s the same guy.”

“Honestly?” Helene said, wide-eyed.

“Sure thing,” Baby told her. “He had a local program on the air in Philly, and I drew the assignment. But he thought I was lousy, and I got the gate. That’s what sent me here to Chicago.”

“Well, well,” Jake said, “and it must have been a difficult trick, sneaking up on that park bench to shoot him.”

Baby grinned. “Oh, I didn’t have any trouble. I snuck up on him, silent-like. You see, I’m really a full-blooded Cherokee Indian, with my hair bleached.”

“Speaking of hair bleach,” Helene said, “let’s have another drink.”

If Baby had actually murdered Givvus, Jake wondered, would he be smart enough to know that was exactly the right thing to say? But why the hell would Baby—

They talked of murder, Mr. Givvus, Philadelphia, radio, and cocktail recipes for the time it took to consume two more of the long, cool drinks. Then Jake had a flash of inspiration.

“Say, where were you all yesterday afternoon?” he asked Baby. “Oscar was giving a special audition and thought he might have to use you if someone fell out of the cast.”

“Yesterday?” Baby thought for a minute. “I did a commercial at one-fifteen and I was on a show later in the afternoon.”

“Was it The Rider of the Rockies?” Jake asked very casually.

Baby shook his head. “No. I’m in today’s script though.” He looked at his watch. “Got to leave pretty quick, too. Funny my landlady didn’t tell you where to reach me yesterday. I had a couple of hours between broadcasts.”

“She probably forgot,” Jake said. “But I should have run into you around the studios. I was there all afternoon.”

“I went back in the announcer’s room and took a nap,” Baby said.

He declined another drink, explaining that he had a show to do; the rest decided there was time for one more, and while it was being made, Nelle and Helene disappeared into the bathroom. As soon as they were out of earshot, Baby turned to Jake, his young face suddenly grave.

“Say, is something worrying Nelle?”

Jake shook his head. “Not that I know. Why?”

“I don’t know. I thought she looked tired and a little pale. I guess things are never very easy for her.” He scowled. “I know I’m not very important to her, but I mean to stick around as long as she needs me.”

“Why?” Jake asked, “if you’re not important to her.”

“This sounds funny,” Baby said, “but look. Nelle’s going to need me very much someday. It’s like this. I know just how much Tootz means to her. He means a hell of a lot. He’s foundation, if you know what I mean.”

Jake nodded, and said, “Sure.”

“Tootz isn’t going to live forever. He’s getting on. When it happens it’s going to be a terrible blow to Nelle. I want to be there to catch her when it comes. Ok, I don’t mean marry her. I’m just another guy to Nelle. But when something li
When that happens, if somebody like me just happens to be there, if you know what I mean.”

“Sure,” Jake said again, wishing he had taken either one more drink or one less.

“Another thing,” Baby said, “this March guy. I didn’t want to say so in front of Nelle, but I knew all about—you-know-what-I-mean—"

Jake nodded and reflected that radio announcers should always have their personal conversations as well as their scripts written for them.

“March told me,” Baby went on. “I got to know him better, than I told Nelle. One night he got drunk, got to bragging about her, and I popped him one, the son-of-a-bitch. If he ever shoots off about her again, I'll break his neck. Only I didn’t want Nelle to know that I knew that. Because it would make her feel bad.” He drew a long breath. “It’s like this. I don’t care about anything she’s done in the past, or what she’s still going to do in the future. For this little space in between, she’s my life. That sounds like something from a lousy script, but I mean it just that way. She’s my life.”

That was when Nelle and Helene returned.

Baby discovered it was time to leave for rehearsal, said goodbye all around, made arrangements to meet Nelle later, and went away.

“There,” said Malone, who had overheard the conversation from the kitchenette, “is a young man who would not only give you the shirt off his back, Nelle, but throw in his necktie and vest as well.”

Jake remembered something he had wanted to ask Nelle for a long time. It was wonderful how gin made him remember things.

He looked at her very seriously. “Nelle. Why? I mean, what do you see in Baby? What did you see in Paul March?”

Her eyes suddenly seemed to become very large, and to see something that the rest of them could not see. “Love. Don’t laugh at me. I keep looking for it and thinking it’s going to happen, and then it doesn’t. People—like Paul—they happen, and I think, this time this is it, this time this is love, and then I find out it isn’t. I know it can happen, because it happens to other people, but never to me. I want someone to be my whole life so that nothing else is important to me, and no one ever is. Other people fall in love and it goes on forever and ever, but me, I know it’s just pretending. Or perhaps it’s me who knows what’s real and the other people are just pretending. I don’t know. Perhaps you can’t understand, but it’s like a kind of ideal that I keep on looking for, even when I know it doesn’t exist and I’ll never find it. And when I sing a love song, I’m not singing it to someone real, someone I love today or this week or this year, but to the ideal even when I know he isn’t anywhere.”

“Oh boy,” Jake said, “oh boy, how that could have been worked into a script!”

The dreamy look was gone in a flash. “Oh Jake,” she wailed. “I wish you’d written it down while I was saying it!”

He leaned back in his chair and stared at her admiringly. “There’s the reason it never happens to you. To other people, ordinary people, your singing and your acting is make-believe and the rest of life is real. But to you, the world is make-believe.” He sighed. “Months now I've tried to understand you and now I do. It’s because you’re an artist. It took Malone’s gin to make me see it, but now I do.”

Malone said very severely, “Let’s all us artists have one more drink.”

Nelle refused, explaining that she had to go, since Tootz expected her home. She kissed them all goodbye and left, after wishing Jake and Helene a happy marriage for the third time in two days.

“That reminds me,” Helene said severely, “You two seem to have forgotten it, but—"

Jake rose to his feet. “I have not forgotten it. This time we go to Grown Point. Nothing stands in the way.”

It was then that the telephone call came from Essie St. John.

