### Chapter 27
## Backstabbers Anonymous

They walked to Erie Street, found Helene awake, and while Malone went to the corner delicatessen for breakfast materials, Jake told her all that had been happening. By the time he had finished, it was one in the afternoon, and Malone had breakfast on the table.

“There’s a certain austere simplicity about this murderer that I’m beginning to enjoy,” the lawyer said, buttering a piece of toast.

“Simplicity!” Helene said indignantly.

“You heard me,” Malone said. “There’s no nonsense about him. No obscure poisons, no time bombs, no mysterious messages pinned on the wall. He wants somebody out of the way, so he just walks in and shoots him.”

“You’re right about the simplicity,” Jake said. “We’re the ones who seem to complicate everything.”

“In the case of Paul March,” Malone went on, “the murderer came to his apartment, sensibly picked a time when the radio program coming through the loudspeaker would cover the sound of the shot, and shot March neatly through the forehead. Then when he decided to murder Givvus, he went into the client’s room at a time when The Rider of the Rockies was filling the air with racket, and tidily shot Mr. Givvus just behind the right ear. And last night, he evidently waited till St. John was alone, calmly walked into the house—”

“There weren’t any shot-and-shell programs on the air last night,” Helene said. “I looked through the program listings.”

“Just the same,” Malone told her, “I'd be willing to place a small bet that our murderer picked a good noisy program and turned St. John’s loudspeaker on full when he fired the shot. Patterns tend to repeat themselves.”

“There’s one pattern I hope doesn’t go on repeating itself,” Jake said gloomily. “Helene and I driving bodies around the streets of Chicago.”

“I could mention another,” Helene said. “You and me trying to get married.”

“Don’t be discouraged,” Malone said. “I once knew a couple who were engaged for eleven years.”

“I never believed in long engagements,” Jake said. “Malone, what happened out there last night?”

“I don’t know,” Malone said, “but three murders, if committed by the same…”
The person, ought to be easier to solve than one." He sighed deeply. "The thing that bothers me about these damned murders is that they all benefit Nelle Brown. This glamour-pants Paul March was blackmailing her. Somebody shot him. The guy Givvus was trying to get his hands on her show. Somebody shot him. John St. John had a copy of the Paul March letters and conceivably knew about the Paul March murder. Somebody shot him. The inference," he said, stirring his coffee violently, "is obvious. Too obvious, in fact, for me to credit."

"You mean it looks so much as if she had shot all three of them that you don't think she did?" Helene inquired.

(CI

Malone sighed again. "But the only indication of her innocence is that she says she didn't do it."

"That's enough for me," Jake said.

"You aren't a jury," Malone reminded him. "You aren't the public. But assuming it wasn't Nelle, and that protecting her was the motive, who thought enough of her to murder three guys for her?"

"Any God's number of people," Jake said.

"How about Baby?" Malone asked.

"He didn't like Paul March," Jake said slowly, "and he knew about Nelle's affair with Paul. He might have known March was trying to blackmail her. In fact - anybody who stole Nelle's script last week might have known it. He had the opportunity. When I called him on the phone that night, he was alone, and his apartment is only a few blocks from here. He could have nipped over here, shot March, and nipped back again. In the case of Givvus—He would have had to know all that St. John was trying to do, to have had any motive for murdering the man. Even then, would he have shot Mr. Givvus just so that St. John couldn't sell him a program?"

"Men have been murdered for less," Malone said.

"He was at the studios," Jake went on. "He says he was taking a nap in the announcer's room. He would have known that The Rider of the Rockies was on, with all its gunfire effects. And last night—" He paused. "Last night, of course, the motive would have been to get Nelle's letters back from St. John, if he knew St. John had them. As far as we know, he had ample opportunity last night." He scowled. "Motive a little weak perhaps, but opportunity one hundred percent in all three cases."

"Of course," Helene pointed out, "it's still possible that none of these murders had anything to do with Nelle Brown."

"Possible but improbable," Malone said, "and it's been my experience that while impossible things happen frequently, improbable ones never do."

Jake was paying no attention. "You can take the name of almost anyone on the show," he said slowly, "and apply the motive of getting Nelle out of a nasty jam."

"Even going as far as murder?" Helene asked incredulously.

"As far and even farther," Jake told her. "There isn't a person on the show who doesn't damn near worship Nelle. In the first place, no one can help liking her, you know that yourself, of course. But it's more than that. There isn't one person on that show Nelle hasn't done some very swell thing for.

"Baby, of course, is crazy about her," he went on. "Oscar—he got in a very bad way a year or so ago; Nelle sent him through an alcoholic cure, lent him money, got him back on his feet again. Lou Silver—Nelle got him out of an unpleasant blackmailish jam with a dame. Bob Bruce was practically on his uppers and couldn't get a job to save his life, when Nelle fought, bled, and all but died to get him on her show. She straightened out a hellish mess between McIvers and his wife. When Schultz' kid was in the hospital with a serious operation, Nelle put up the money. There's other stuff I could tell you, and probably a lot more I don't know about. Add that to the person Nelle is. See? When she smashed up over Paul March last winter, everybody on the show suffered damn near as much as she did.

Commit murder for her? Hell's bells, any one of that crew would be murdered for her."

"A beautiful speech," Malone said.
Id. “It does you credit, and what’s more, I believe it. But it doesn’t tell me who murdered who.” He paused to mop his face with a soiled and crumpled handkerchief. “What’s more, I’d like to know how much goofier Tootz is than we think he is.”

They stared at him for a full minute.

“Oh Malone,” Helene said, “you couldn’t imagine Tootz being a homicidal maniac.”

“Understand this,” Malone said, frowning, “you think of a homicidal maniac as a wild creature with tangled hair and flaming eyes, foaming at the mouth, and brandishing an ax. That isn’t the right picture at all. A crazy man can be crafty as hell. He can fool a lot of people.”

“But why would he pick on those particular victims?” Jake asked.

“In his condition of mind, he might pick on anybody,” Malone said. “Delusions of persecution can bring on a bunch of murders. Especially if he thought those particular people were persecuting Nelle.”

“But that’s why it’s impossible,” Jake said. “He didn’t know anything about them. Not about Paul March, nor Givvus—hell, he didn’t know Givvus from a circus horse. He didn’t know anything about anything.” He scowled ferociously. “Damn it, Malone, half of our anxiety is over keeping Tootz from finding out about any of this.”

“There’s another reason why it’s impossible,” Helene said thoughtfully. “Tootz couldn’t have been there.”

“Helene’s right,” Jake said. “All his horses couldn’t drag Tootz out of the house when Nelle wasn’t with him. And in the case of all three of the murders, Nelle was away from Tootz.”

Malone shrugged his shoulders. “Well anyway, that would still leave a long list of questions unanswered.” He checked on his fingers. “One, what was the motive for moving Paul March’s body? Two, where did March get the money that was in his pocket? Three, who stole Nelle Brown’s script with the impression of the blackmail note on it? Four, where are the letters St. John was carrying in his pocket yesterday? Five, who set fire to the old warehouse?”

Jake blinked.

“After all,” Malone added, “it doesn’t seem likely that the warehouse would have chosen this particular time to burn down, just all by itself.”

There was a long, uncomfortable pause.

“And to think,” Jake said at last, “all this started with one measly little murder that nobody cared about, and that I thought nobody would ever know anything about. Personally,” he muttered, “I think it’s a conspiracy just to keep me from getting married to Helene. Somebody’s doing the whole thing just to make life hard for me.”

“Von Flanagan is probably thinking the same thing right now,” Malone said. “He thinks murderers try to hide the evidences of their crimes as a personal unkindness to him.”

“Would it do any good,” Jake said slowly, “for me to go to Von Flanagan and tell him my part in the whole mess? Leaving out the part about the letters, of course. But if he knew about the secret audition, and where Givvus was killed, and where March was killed and when—"

“It might have done some good if you’d thought of it earlier,” Malone said. “Von Flanagan is too sore about it now. He’d love an excuse to throw anybody in the jug right now, and you’ve given him plenty of reason for arresting you. You’d better not stick your neck out any more than it is already, or Von Flanagan will have a noose around it.”

Jake said, “No noose is good noose,” and blushed apologetically.

“I’ll tell you what you can do,” Malone told him. “I’m going to drop in at Von Flanagan’s office and you can come along. You have the excuse that your client was associated in a business way with St. John and you want to find out just what is what. But keep your mouth shut and let me do the talking.”

Jake nodded.

“And then,” Malone continued, “you and I had better go talk to Nelle.” He looked at his watch. “The day’s practically gone. We’d better get going.”

“But what about me?” Helene wailed. “Do I have to stay hidden here forever?”

“I feel a lot safer when you can’t roam around.”
"Und and stir up more trouble,” Malone said severely. “But I’ll do what I can, as soon as I can.”

“And meantime, you just stay right where you are,” Jake told her.

“All right. I will,” she said so meekly that Jake worried about it all the way downtown.

Von Flanagan, when they found him, was not in an amiable mood. He was standing by his window, gloomily watching the traffic in the street below and whistling a bar of “The Last Round-Up,” as Jake and Malone walked in.

“You remember Jake Justus,” Malone said. “He used to be with the Examiner.”

Von Flanagan nodded with no warmth whatsoever.

“He’s something of a mink fancier himself,” Malone added.

The police officer’s eyes brightened. “You keep mink?” he asked interestedly.

“Only as pets,” Jake said.

“You seem to have quite an affair on your hands,” Malone said hastily.

For several minutes Von Flanagan talked loudly and profanely about the murders.

“It’s certainly all of that,” Malone agreed as the police officer paused for breath. “Jake here is interested because his client—he’s a press agent now—was associated with St. John.”

Von Flanagan turned to Jake. “Who’s your client?”

“Nelle Brown.”

“You don’t say!” the big man said more cheerfully. “Do you suppose you could get me her autograph?”

“Sure,” Jake said, “any time. Who killed John St. John, or do you know yet?”

“Well, his wife might have,” Von Flanagan said, “he wasn’t any too good to her from what I learn. Only it don’t look like she did. Her alibi looks pretty good and anyway she didn’t have no reason for shooting the other one.”

“The other one?” Malone inquired.

Von Flanagan nodded. “This St. John fella and the guy that was in the kitchen were shot with the same gun. There, by God, we know something, anyway. And we know something else, too. The Paul March guy, he wasn’t shot up in St. John’s kitchen, he was shot someplace else and taken there, just like that other bird, Givvus, was taken up to Lincoln Park. It would look like the same thing, only the Givvus murder don’t seem to have nothing to do with these two, on account of he was shot with a different gun. But this here Paul March, I don’t know where he was shot, and God only knows when he was shot, because there’s something funny about the condition of his body. But wherever he was shot, he was taken up to where we found him.”

“That’s curious,” Jake said weakly. It was the best he could do at the time.

“What’s more,” Von Flanagan said, “now it looks like there was some tie-up between these murders and this guy Givvus. On account of the one thing we did find out about this guy Givvus is that he’d sent a bunch of money to Paul March just a few days before he came to Chicago.” He leaned back precariously in his chair and folded his hands across his middle.

Malone considered the end of his cigar very thoughtfully and said, “What do you suppose he did that for?”

“Search me,” the police officer said, “I’m no crystal-gazer. All I know is this guy Givvus sent this guy Paul March a check for five hundred bucks, with a voucher attached reading, ‘For services rendered.’ I know that, and I know three guys are dead, and I know the papers are raising hell with me. And I don’t like it.”

“I don’t blame you,” Malone said soothingly.

“Somebody moved those two bodies,” Von Flanagan said, an indignant light coming into his eyes, as though he considered it a grave personal affront. “Somebody did, and me, I ain’t gonna stand for it. I don’t know who done it, but I’m sure as shooting going to find out. And boy,” he said gleefully, rubbing his hands together, “boy, when I do get my hands on whoever it was—”

