### Chapter 33
## End of the Line

Nelle picked up the big envelope and shook it. Three packages of letters fell onto the studio floor. Jake picked them up, stared at them. “But they’re all alike,” he exclaimed.

Malone almost grabbed them from his hand.

Henry Gibson Gifford said, “Paul March was a forger as well as a blackmailer.”

Malone was looking hard at the letters. “There were three sets of letters, exactly the same!” He looked up at the old man.

“Paul March was a clever man,” Gifford said. “He knew of three people who would be customers for them, so he forged two duplicate sets of letters. I don’t know myself which is the real set. Yes, a clever lad. Too bad he ended up as he did—he could have gone far in the world.” He reached into the big envelope, pulled out several notes written on odds and ends of paper, and handed them to Malone. “Those are even more explanatory.”

Malone took them, handed the three sets of letters to Nelle. She looked at them a little stupidly.

“But where were these others?” she asked. “Who had them?”

“St. John had one set, bought from Paul March,” Henry Gibson Gifford said. “Mr. Givvus of Philadelphia had the other, also bought from Paul March.”

“He had them,” Malone said, looking up, “until St. John killed him for them.”

After the very long pause that followed, Joe McIvers said, “You can’t tell me an agency man would shoot his own prospective client.” He took a long breath and added, “Especially before an audition.”

Malone, musing, ignored him. “That explains why Givvus had sent Paul March five hundred dollars. As near as I can tell from this correspondence between Givvus and St. John—heaven knows why St. John didn’t destroy it when he had the chance—Paul March evidently knew what the situation was regarding the Nelle Brown Revue—as far as St. John’s hope of selling it to Givvus was concerned. Evidently he also knew Givvus, and what Givvus would try to do if he had the chance. At any rate, he sold a set of the letters to Givvus.”

Tootz nodded. “That’s how I figured it out myself.”

“Then,” Malone went on thoughtfully, “when Givvus turned up for the audition, he told St. John that he had his own hold over Nelle Brown and was going to get her show on his own terms, by dealing direct with her, leaving St. John out of the picture. It would have saved Givvus a pile of money. St. John not only saw his own plans go haywire, but he knew that unless he could get Givvus out of the way, he couldn’t sell Nelle Brown to anyone else. With Givvus dead, he could. St. John needed the money and prestige desperately.”

The lawyer scowled. “Naturally everyone assumed that the last person in the world who would have shot Givvus was St. John. As Joe here just said—no agency man would shoot his own client, especially after arranging an audition for him. We all jumped to that conclusion, and St. John knew we would. That audition was arranged to conceal a murder. It must have happened that way. St. John ushered him into the client’s room as soon as he arrived, killed him before the audition, and took the duplicates of Nelle’s letters and his own notes to Givvus out of the dead man’s pockets.”

“But St. John—" Joe McIvers began a little stupidly.

The old man interrupted him. “I thought everything was all right—that every danger was out of the way. Then St. John came to see Nelle, and told her he had the letters. She thought I was taking a nap at the time he was there—I wasn’t. I was listening. I knew I had the letters taken from Paul March’s pockets. Finally, I came to a conclusion which proved to be the right one—that there were duplicate letters.
"At first, I wasn’t sure what to do. I knew Nelle didn’t want to give the audition, and I knew the reason why she was doing it. Then when Mr. Givvus of Philadelphia turned up on a bench in Lincoln Park, I didn’t know what had happened. I did know, though, that St. John was a danger to Nelle. The letters he had might be duplicates—but they were just as great a threat to her as those I had taken from Paul March’s pockets. So I knew St. John had to die.”

Once more the slim old fingers paused, half tangled in Nelle’s hair.

“I went to St. John’s house. He was asleep before his radio. No one else was there. I turned the loudspeaker on full to cover the sound of the shot, and killed him. The letters were in his pocket. I took them, and then I knew that Nelle was safe.”

In the long silence that followed, Nelle looked up at Malone. “How did you know? How did you find it out?”

“I didn’t know,” the little lawyer said, “I didn’t know. I had to guess.” His voice was very tired. “But everything that happened was to your benefit. That, in my mind, narrowed it down to those who loved you enough to commit murder for you.

“But it could be Tootz,” he went on, “only if he were sane. That was the balance point on which the whole thing rested. If his delusions were real”—he smiled—“well, leave it that way. If his delusions were real, it was true that he wouldn’t leave the apartment without you, and in that case, he couldn’t possibly have committed the murders. But if he were sane, his delusion of the men following him and his refusal to leave the apartment gave him a perfect alibi. Because of that chance remark of Jake’s—and because the evidence of the telephone calls indicated that he had been out of the apartment without Nelle on two separate occasions—I believed that he was sane.

“Up to the very last,” he said softly, “up to the very minute when he appeared in the shadows of the control room, listening to what Nelle was saying, I wasn’t sure. It was a shot in the dark, though I was fairly sure of my aim. When I telephoned him that Nelle was in danger of arrest, I knew that if he were sane, he would come here. If he were not then my whole theory was wrong, and the game was up, as far as the program and Nelle’s contract were concerned.”

“Damn you,” Jake said in a sudden rage, “damn you, Malone. All this hasn’t done any good. It’s found the murderer, yes—but you’ve made everything worse than ever. Goldman will never sign the contract after hearing this. Tootz will go to jail for the rest of his life, and that’s all the good you’ve done.”

“No,” Malone said thoughtfully, “Tootz won’t go to jail. Because outside of the people in this room, no one knows that he isn’t mad.”

A smile crossed the handsome face of Henry Gibson Gifford. “I haven’t a very long time to live,” he said. “I’d hate to spend it in a penitentiary. But they don’t send madmen there, do they, Malone?”

“No,” Malone said, “a pleasanter place. And Nelle will have nothing but the sympathy of the world when the news breaks that her half-mad husband had gone completely mad, homicidal. Even Goldman will sympathize with that. You, Jake, should be able to see that.”

The old man said, “A quiet room in a pleasant place, with a radio set perhaps, and Nelle to visit me now and then—I couldn’t ask for much more.”

Malone stood up. “Shall we go, Gifford? If those horses could convince people all these months, they’ll convince Von Flanagan now.”

Nelle rose, clasped Tootz’ hand. Jake tried not to look at her face.

“You mustn’t cry,” Henry Gibson Gifford said very gently. “You’ll hurt your throat. And you have a program to do tonight.”

“Yes,” she said, “I have a program to do tonight, and a week from tonight and a week from then—” Her voice broke ever so little. “If you could do this for me, Tootz, I guess I can live up to it.”

He kissed her once, said, “I’m ready to go, Malone,” and walked to the studio door without looking back, as though he had been.
On his way to receive a decoration.

Nelle stood very still, looking after him. No one spoke. Jake counted the squares in the studio floor and wished someone would say something, felt that someone, anyone, must speak, must say something, anything. And at last it was his own voice that he heard.

“Nelle, you can’t do the program in that dress.”

The tension broke, everyone seemed ready to speak at once.

Nelle seemed to wake from a dream, looked at her watch. “But I’d have to go home to change. And there isn’t time before the broadcast.”

Then Helene came to life again. “Oh yes there is,” she said, “oh yes there is. Have you ever seen me drive?”

