### Chapter 18

## The Pay-Off

I reached the theater after the first act curtain and in darkness sidled past Walter and Don Yard and Bertha and sat in the empty seat on her right. Her fingers groped for my hand and stroked it. I snatched my hand away. Was she crazy, with Don Yard sitting on the other side of her?

When the lights came on for the intermission, it seemed to me that the theater was filled with uniforms. You’d have thought the war wasn’t over. I dipped my face into my program.

“Anybody coming for a smoke?” Walter asked.

Yard and Bertha said that they would sit the intermission out. I said, “Same here,” and at the moment I heard my name called.

“Hey, Alec!” the voice shouted enthusiastically.

Clip Larsen was standing at the aisle seat four rows down and waving to me. I went hollow inside. I glanced to my left. Yard and Bertha sitting and Walter standing were watching Clip. When he saw that I wasn’t coming to him, he started to come to me.

I sprang up to intercept him before he got close enough for them to hear whatever he would say to me. I tripped over Yard’s feet. “Pardon me; there’s a friend of mine,” I panted. Walter pushed back against his raised seat to give me room to pass. I met Clip halfway.

One thing was certain: he didn’t know about Lily or that I was wanted by the police. Otherwise he wouldn’t have shaken my hand so heartily and introduced me to his mother and the girl he was engaged to marry. For half a dozen flights he had been bombardier in our B-29. Then he got dengue fever and after he recovered he’d been transferred to another ship. There was a silver bar on his shoulder now instead of a gold one.

For a small eternity I stood there at their seats shooting the breeze with him and his mother and his girl. Clip was leaving at two in the morning for a Florida base and the women felt bad about it, though he hoped to get his discharge before winter. I saw Walter return from the lobby. I kept talking, I don’t know about what, though , airmen are always full of gossip. When the curtain buzzer sounded, I had to go back.

Don Yard asked the inevitable question for the three of them as soon as I was settled in my seat. “What did that soldier call you?”

“Al,” I said. I leaned past Bertha, lowered my voice discreetly. “My name is really Alfred Jeffery. I dropped the Alfred and added the Berkowitz when I was kicked out of the Army. I became friendly with Lieutenant Larsen in a hospital in India. We both had dengue fever.”

It seemed to sound good enough to them. Yard nodded and watched the second act curtain rise.

***

As soon as the show ended I explained that I was going to the men’s room and left in a hurry. For a full ten minutes I stayed out of sight. By the time I came up the theater was empty. The three of them were waiting for me under the marquee.

“Walt and I have some business,” Yard said to me. “How about doing me a favor and taking Bertha home?”

I said I’d be glad to. Yard and Walter walked off and I left Bertha to hunt up a taxi in the after-theater rush. I walked from Forty-fifth Street to Forty-first before I managed to drag an empty one back with me.

In the taxi I took Bertha’s hand. She let it lie limp. She didn’t turn her face to me. With Yard beside her in the theater she had been anxious to touch me. How can you figure out a woman?

“What’s the matter?” I said. “Change your mind since this afternoon?”

Her voice was dull. “It’s the other way around. I found out I’ve got it bad for you.”

“And now you’re scared of Don?”

“More than you think.”

I didn’t like it. I had no desire to get in too deep with her now or to hurt her later. She was all right. I would have done better with her than with Lily, if I’d had any business with either of them or any woman like them.

We held emotionless hands until we reached the gray brick house. I paid off the driver and followed her to the private entrance under the stoop.

“Come in,” she said woodenly.

I tagged in after her. She switched on the living room light and dropped her cream-colored ermine wrap on a chair as if it were a rag. She wore a green strapless evening gown. Her figure had no trouble holding it up without visible supports. This was like a sophisticated comedy, the scene set for passion. I wasn’t particularly happy about it.

But she wasn’t having any just then. She went to the bleached oak desk and opened a lower drawer. A pile of newspapers lay in it. I knew then what was coming. I stood watching her, numb and without the ability to think. She selected one paper, looked at it, then walked over to me without sex in her movements. She dropped the paper on the coffee table.

“Alexander Linn,” she said.

***

I just stood there.

She said down to my photo in the newspaper: “That officer in the theater called you Alec. It was al, like you said, but Alec. Since Lily was murdered this paper has come to the house every Thursday and its full of the name of Alexander Linn, or Alec Lin as even the paper calls him mostly. And it came out at the trial that Linn was a crackerjack poker player and he’d been fighting in India. Like Jeff Berkowitz. And how did you know so much about Lily’s murder and why were you wanted to talk about her if you’d never known her? I sat between you and Don in the dark theater and tried to remember the picture of Alec Linn I’d seen in this paper. I couldn’t, but the first time I say you, you looked like somebody I’d seen before. During the show I was so scared I nearly died.”

I was silent.

Her head came up. “Get out! If I caught wise to you, Don will, too. He’ll kill you!” Her voice went strident. “Don’t just look at me. Start running.”

“I didn’t murder anybody,” I said.

She didn’t listen to me or hear me. She fell against me. I felt her mouth on my chin and on my cheeks and finally on my mouth. “I never though anybody could get inside me like you have,” she said. “But it’s too later. It was too late before I even set eyes on you.”

I dug my hands into her bare shoulders and held her a little way off. “Listen to me! I’m innocent!”

“I know you were acquitted of Lily’s murder, but the cops are after you for shooting Schneider.”

“Damn it, I never murdered anybody!” I yelled at her. “Why do you think I cam to New York to get close to Don Yard? He’s as dangerous to me as the police, but I’m grabbing at straws to clear myself. You’ve got to help me.”

We stood two feet apart with my hands on her shoulders connecting us.

“Berky, are you on the level?”

“I was framed for both murders.”

“Is that why you talked so much about it in your room this afternoon?” Light went out of her eyes. “You think Don killed Lily and then framed you because he hated you? But then he would have known you. How could he frame you without ever having see you before? And he was on Cape Cod with me that night.”

“Is that the truth?”

“I won’t alibi him. Not now. I’d see him in hell if that would give you to me.” Her body was hard against mine. “Berky, you’ve got to get out of town. Maybe we’ll meet somewhere. You can’t hang around waiting for Don and the cops.”

***

I held her close. This was the rottenest thing I had ever done, using her like this. I’d let her down as easily as I could, in a little while.

“There’s a chance you can help me,” I said into her hair. “I think I have what I need, but I’m not dead sure. Lily maintained some sort of contact with Don during the two years she lived in West Amber. He took her out on the Fourth of July and vested her a week before her murder, with you and Walter and others. I don’t know what I want or what there is, but maybe something she said to you that Don told you she told him.”

“Berky, that phone call! She eased herself away from me. My fingers had left marks on her bare shoulders. “That’s it!” she said excitedly. “Lily phoned Don a couple of nights before she was stabbed. She was afraid of somebody.”

“Who?”

“She didn’t say. It was Thursday night. I’m sure because we were packing to leave for Cape Cod next morning. I answered the phone and it was Lily and she asked for Don. We were in the bedroom. Don took the call on the extension in this room. I listened in on the bedroom phone. I wanted to hear whatever Lily had to say to him. I don’t have to tell you why.”

“Why was Lily threatened?”

“She didn’t get a chance to tell Don. All she said was that some crazy guy had said he’d kill her. She wanted Don and Walt to come up to West Amber and scare the daylights out of him. They could do it. Once somebody was hedging on a bet he’d lost to Don. Don and Walt took him for a drive in the car. They didn’t say much. They just let him look at a gun, like they did with you the time they took your roll. Then they drove him home. Don said the man’s legs were so weak he could hardly walk from the car across the sidewalk to his house. The next day he paid up. That was what Lily wanted Don to do to whoever she was scared of. Don was sore at her. I know why; he’d been angling to get her back and she’d turned him down. So he told Lily to get out of her own messes with her boy friends. Lily said this wasn’t anybody who had ever touched her or wanted to. Don said, ‘Well, this is the first guy I heard of who didn’t want to or you wouldn’t let,’ and he hung up on her.”

I sat down heavily and went about the business of lighting a cigarette in order to keep my hands occupied.

Bertha said: “Then when we heard Lily was murdered, Don assumed it was you she’d been scared of. So did I. But now it clears up. If she was afraid you’d kill her when you came home, why did she stay there in West Amber waiting for you? And wouldn’t she have told Don it was you? She spoke of this guy who was threatening her like he was nobody at all to her. That’s why I believe you. You didn’t do it. That other guy did.”

She came over to my chair and took the cigarette from me and killed it in an ashtray and dropped down on my lap. “Berky, darling, does anything I’ve told you help?”

“Yes.”

“You mean you know who did it?”

“Yes. But I haven’t the proof.”

“Oh, God!” She put her face into my shoulder. I could feel her breasts heave, but I couldn’t see if she was weeping soundlessly or breathing heavily. I held her tenderly. We sat like that, as if by inaction we could postpone reality.

***

I should leave now. There was nothing else for me here. I had what I had come after. All that was left for me was to take it to District Attorney Hackett and slap it on his desk.

I would say: Call off your bloodhounds. This shows who the murderer really is.

He would say: What’s all this arithmetic?

I would say: The evidence. A beautifully satisfied equation.

He would say: And you are convinced that this proves that X murdered Lily Linn and Emil Schneider?

I would say: I am.

He would say: Marvelous! This will revolutionize police science. All we will have to do in the future is to have X equal a formula and we’ll have our criminal.

I would say: Well, it’s not exactly as simple as that. The special set of circumstances in this case make it possible.

He would say: You disappoint me greatly. For moment I hoped for considerable unemployment of policemen. However, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for solving this case for me so simply.

I would say: My reason was wholly selfish.

He would say: All the same, I thank you. It will make me ashamed to collect my pay for the next month. I will merely have to read your equation to a jury and the conviction of X will follow automatically. Any little thing I can do for you to express my gratitude?

I would say: I don’t want anything except to be let alone and go home.

He would say: Now that’s unfortunate because that is the one thing I cannot do for you. It happens that I am placing you under arrest for the murder of Emil Schneider. My regret is that under law you cannot be tried a second time for the murder of Lily Linn, though that is really of small importance. We have not yet found a way of executing a man twice.

I would say: But my beautiful equation!

He would say—

She stirred on my lap, snuggled closer. Her mouth crawled up the side of my neck and along the ridge of my jaw. “Berky, what are we going to do?”

“You don’t want any part of me,” I told her. “They’re hunting me and if they catch me they’ll kill me. Hold onto what you have.”

“What have I got? I want you. Maybe we can work something out. There’s poker all over the world, and you can make a living everywhere they play it.”

So I had to let her have it. I was a coward. I turned my head away so that I would not have to look into her eyes, and I saw Don Yard.

***

He was standing just inside the door leading from the rest of the apartment. He’d come in soundlessly through the back door to spring his trap. One of us would have noticed him before this if he had been there long. But a single moment was enough.

He removed a dying cigar from his craggy face. “Very touching,” he observed.

Bertha’s head butted my chin in twisting toward the voice. “Oh, God!” she moaned. She sagged lower on me, suddenly dead weight.

Don Yard came toward us as wide and inexorable as a tank. His arms hung loosely with the short, strong fingers spread. Then Bertha’s hair hid him from me. It got in my mouth. I heard her say thinly, “Don!” but she hadn’t the strength to entangle herself from me. I slid my face free of her hair and saw him again.

He had reached the white coffee table and had picked up the Hale County Star. He looked at my photo.

“Is he Linn?” Walter asked.

Walter’s presence hadn’t registered before this. He’d been only the background, standing against the farther wall with both hands in his pockets and cigarette smoke weaving up over his long, impassive face.

“What do you think?” Yard said. “It bothered me where I’d seen him before. It was in this paper.” His voice was a tired monotone. “Alexander Linn, the rat who likes the women I like. He stuck a knife in Lily and now—”

The rest died off into a silence that said: And now Bertha. There was no answer I could make.

Casually he pulled a snub-nosed automatic pistol out of a pocket. “Get off him, Bertha.”

“No, Don!” She threw both arms around my neck, sitting high on me now. Her half-bared perfumed breasts pressed into my face. I couldn’t see or breathe. Suddenly I felt more ridiculous than afraid.

“Don, he didn’t kill Lily!” she said. “For heaven’s sake, give him a chance.”

“I gave him a chance to be alone with you,” Yard told her in that dead voice he was using tonight. “He took Lily and he took you and he killed Lily.”

“He didn’t kill Lily. Listen to me, Don. Remember that night Lily phoned you and said she was scared of somebody. It couldn’t have been Berky—Alec Linn.”

“Get off him!”

“No!”

Facing death was bad enough without the added indignity of a shield of half-naked flesh. I pulled her arms from about my neck. I strove to rise, taking her up with me. Resistance went out of her. She rose to her feet under her own power and took a couple of swaying steps to the side of the chair and then reached out to cling to its high back. I stood up as soon as I was free of her weight.

“If you kill me, you’ll let Lily’s murderer get away with it,” I said. “I’m the only one who knows, who he is.” The gun lay flat on Yard’s broad palm. His finger wound about the trigger. “You can’t say a thing I want to hear.”

Nothing. Convincing him that I hadn’t murdered Lily, if I could convince him, still left my marriage to Lily and my love-making with Bertha.

***

Walter had come across the room to Yard’s side. The cigarette bobbed with the motion of his lips. “Not here, Don.”

“You think I want to spoil a rug I paid three grand for?” Yard said. The gun cut a small arc in the air in front of my chest. “The car’s over on Ninth Avenue. We’ll go through the alley. Start moving, rat.”

This was the way it was done in the remote and not quite real world of the newspapers and the movies. A man steps into a car and rides a few miles to a desolate section of the suburbs and ends up with a bullet in him. Dying, or the anticipation of dying, wasn’t the hardest part of it. For two years I’d steeled myself, with a certain amount of fatalistic success, to accept the coming of death at any hour. But to die like this, pointlessly and without a chance to prove to Miriam and Ursula and the others who cared for me and had once respected me that I had never murdered, was bitterly unfair.

“I can give it to you here and we can carry you away,” Yard said. “Make up your mind.”

I started to shake with uncontrollable rage. Nearby somebody whimpered.

“Yellow,” Walter said scornfully. “How’d they ever let a yellow-belly like this in one of those big bombers?”

The whimpers were coming from me. I locked my lips against them and put my unsteady hands behind my back. “Walk,” Yard said.

Bertha was no longer clinging to the back of the chair. I hadn’t been aware of movement, but now I saw her standing against the bleached oak desk. There was nothing left of her lacquered face but splotches of garish paint.

“I’ll tell the cops you shot him,” she said.

Yard looked at her over his shoulder. “Maybe you’d like to come along?” She withered against the desk. “Don, please! I’ll be your slave. Don’t hurt him. Please!”

“Who wants you any more?” Yard looked at her thoughtfully, scratching his chin with the muzzle of the gun. “This is my job anyway. I can handle the kid alone. You stay here with her, Walt, and keep your eyes on her till I come back.”

He stepped around me and put his free hand at the small of my back and shoved. I stumbled forward, regained my balance, walked toward the door in the far wall of the room. Yard followed.

I passed within five feet of Bertha. She had her back to us now and was sagging broken and helpless over the desk. She did not turn her head for a last look at me. I stepped through the doorways

***

The shots were blurred coughing sounds, two or three or four of them overlapping. When I turned, Don Yard was already on the floor. A hand flapped weakly out to claw the edge of the Persian rug and suddenly died, becoming one with the inertness of the rest of that wide and solid mass of flesh and bones.

The gun was in Bertha’s hand. It was a tiny pearl-handled revolver held against her right hip. She leaned limply against the top open drawer of the desk, the drawer in which Don Yard must have kept that extra gun. Her mouth opened and closed and again opened and closed, but no sound came from her.

My eyes searched for Walter. He was coming slowly toward me with his hands still in his pockets. When he reached Yard, he squatted and took out both his hands. No gun was in either. He felt the motionless flesh. The veil remained over his eyes, but a corner of his mouth started to twitch as if fighting a smile. “You got him good, sweetheart,” he said and stood up.

He listened to the street outside and the house above us. The stillness maintained. It was doubtful if anybody had been awakened by the shots, or hearing them had recognized them as shots. The sound of a .22 revolver is no louder than a hand slapped sharply on a table.

Walter strolled leisurely over to Bertha and reached for the gun. She uttered a thin cry and pulled hand and gun behind her back.

“Better let me handle it, sweetheart,” he said. “You’re in trouble.”

She stared up into his face. Slowly, as if hypnotized by those empty eyes of his, she brought the gun back into view. He plucked if from her fingers and dropped it into a pocket. He put his face very close to hers and spoke. Those soft, slurred undertones did not quite carry to me.

I didn’t care what he was saying. It was up to me, to think faster and more accurately than ever before in my life. And I couldn’t. I was shaking hardly at all. Physically I was all right; I was holding together. But that might be only a hopeless acknowledgement of final defeat as I stood beside a dead body for the third time in two months. Three strikes and out. Bas!

Bertha and Walter were coming toward me. His arm was intimately, possessively, about her waist. Her stride was unhampered by fear or strain; her face was smoothly in place. The picture didn’t quite fit.

They skirted around the dead man. Bertha’s eyes were fixed straight ahead so that she wouldn’t have to look at him or at me. Walter stepped behind her to give her room to get through the door. He looked back at me.

“Let’s talk in the other room,” he said.

***

He was snapping the light on when I entered. It was the dining room. Bertha stood at the wall mirror pinning up her hair. It had become somewhat undone while she’d been sitting on my lap.

“Here’s the play, kid,” Walter said to me. “First the part that concerns me and Bertha. We didn’t come home from the show with Don. We went somewhere for drinks and maybe a party. He told us he had a date with somebody here at twelve, though he didn’t tell us who, and went right home. The idea is he wanted to be alone with whoever he was meeting. I’ve got plenty of pals around who’ll alibi Bertha and me, guys who owe me favors. In an hour or so I’ll get one of them to phone the police on a dial phone that he was passing this house and heard shots. He’ll say he doesn’t want to be bothered with red tape, so he won’t give his name. He’ll hang up and beat it. All right. The thing is, when the call comes in, Bertha and I will be where a hundred people will see us. Some of them will say we’ve been there since eleven-thirty.”

“I’m wanted for murder anyway, so one more won’t matter,” I said grimly. “I take the rap for Bertha. Is that it?”

“No, Berky,” Bertha said, giving her hair a final pat. “We’re all in this together and we’ll get out together.” Walter nodded. “That’s it, kid. All in together, like the three musketeers. If the cops pick you for this, you’d say Bertha did the shooting—”

“To save my life from Don. That’s legitimate.”

“Maybe a jury will believe that’s why she shot him, maybe it won’t. We don’t have to take the chance. If the cops pick you up, you’ll say it was Bertha and they’ll break her into confessing. They’ll do it; I know how those babies work. So the idea is to make sure the cops don’t pick you up for this. If they don’t you won’t go to them and squeal on Bertha because you’re wanted for another killing. There’s no chance of you and Bertha double crossing each other.”

“Where do you come in?” I said.

He sent a thin smile to Bertha. She looked down at the floor, then sat down at one of the dining table chairs and elaborately smoothed out the tablecloth. It cleared up then. She had made a deal with him. He had always wanted her, and now he could have her if he got us both out of this.

“I’m doing it for Bertha,” he told me with that ghost smile pasted to his long face. “Now start thinking, kid. How many people know you were working for Don?”

“Nobody, unless Earl Locust was told.”

“Not a chance. It was good business to keep the set-up under wraps. You met Don in his place, but so did a lot of other guys. How many people know Jeffery Berkowitz?”

“Locust and my landlady, Mrs. Egan. She knows even less about me than he does.”

“Good. What about you as Linn? Anybody know Linn is in New York?”

“Two people. One was Clip Larsen who saw me in the theater tonight. He has no idea that I’m wanted by the police, and he’s leaving for Florida in an hour or so.”

“You said two people.”

“Robin Magee is the other. He was my lawyer, and last night he met me in Locust’s apartment. He’s the one person outside of Bertha and you who knows that Jeffery Berkowitz is Alec Linn. I’m still his client in a way, so he promised not to tell the police.”

“I know Magee. One time he hid a guy out for a month till he got his defense all set. He’s a smart mouthpiece. You don’t have to worry about him. If he opens his mouth now, he makes himself an accessory because he kept quiet about seeing you last night. See what I’m getting at, kid? Bertha and I will get ourselves alibis. We can’t do the same thing for you because you’re hot to begin with. So we have to be careful nobody ties up Berkowitz and Linn and Don Yard or the cops will start getting ideas. Okay, then, you’re set. You check out of your room tomorrow morning and scram.”

***

Bertha stood up and looked through the doorway into the living room. One of Yard’s outstretched hands was visible to me and probably to her. She turned her head away, and she broke a little. “Hurry!” she said. “I can’t stand it.”

“A couple of minutes yet,” Walter said. “We’ve got to get rid of your fingerprints, kid. Mine and Bertha’s don’t count. We live here. But the cops have yours on file and might get an idea to check. Take your handkerchief and wipe everything you touched.”

I hated to go back into the living room, but I had to. I started with the doorknobs and ended with the chair in which Bertha had sat on my lap. Walter came in to fetch Bertha’s ermine cape and handbag and went out without a word to me. I was about to follow him when I remembered the light-switch. I wiped it.

Don Yard blocked my path back into the dining room. It was somewhat grisly the way we had to walk over him or sidle around his outstretched hands to pass from one room to the other. I stopped at his feet to look down at him. For the first time I saw the hole in the back of his head. Or rather where a small patch of the short hair at the nape was matted with blood. Only a tiny lead slug from an almost toy-like .22 revolver. Not as deep as a steak knife plunged into a woman’s heart or as efficient as a rifle shooting down a man on a porch at pointblank range, but it had sufficed.

A rifle, I thought. Three corpses and three different weapons, but only a rifle presented a serious problem after the act. The steak knife could be left in the body without danger to the killer after the print had been wiped off, the revolver Bertha had used could easily be disposed of by Walter, but a rifle had bulk and individuality. It was conspicuously connected to the owner, familiar possession, a piece of furniture decorating a wall.

“Aren’t you through, Berky?” Bertha called.

I roused myself. I stepped carefully around the outstretched hand clinging in death to the snub-nosed automatic and entered the dining room. Bertha was alone. I heard Walter opening and closing a drawer in another room. Probably he was after the large sums of cash a gambler like Yard would keep at hand in his apartment.

***

She had the ermine cape over her shoulders and was renewing her face with the contents of her handbag. “Are you set, Berky?” she asked with a pencil at her eyebrows. As if I were calling on her to take her out on a casual date.

She was working at being hard as nails. That was veneer, protective covering to survive or endure the narrow shadow world she lived in. For a few minutes tonight she had shed it for me, but Don Yard’s death had made her put it on again. Covered by that layer of toughness, she could take the killing of one man and bargaining her body to another man in stride. It held up the outer shell of her, whatever was happening inside of her.

I said: “I can’t let you do this for me.”

She zipped the handbag closed. “Say, you don’t think I shot Don because of you? You didn’t see me going for a gun until he told Walter to watch me. I was scared crazy of what he’d do to me when he got back.”

“Maybe,” I said.

“Oh, sure, the fact that he was taking you for a ride had something to do with it. But the real reason I did it was I was looking out for this little girl’s health.”

She sounded tougher than I had ever heard her. She was putting it on thick for my benefit.

“I mean I can’t let you go with Walter,” I said.

“He’s not such a bad guy. In my time I’ve been with worse.”

“Go away with me instead. That’s what you want to do, isn’t it?” I looked back at the gun clutched in Don Yard’s dead hand. “I’ll take care of Walter.”

Don’t talk like a kid. What do you want to do—kill him?”

“No.”

“Then what? You and me run out together? How far do you think we’ll get with Walt phoning the cops before we can go a block? Say you tie him up—the cops will still be after us, maybe a day behind, but after us. You think I want that when I can sit safe and snug with Walter. You’re poison to me, Berky.”

“Poison,” I said. “I did this to you. If I hadn’t come around, you would never have had to shoot Don.”

“What the hell, I asked for it. I threw myself at you.” She looked at me for a long time and a remote smile whisked over her red lips. “For a while I kidded myself, but I know better now. You never said you loved me. All you wanted out of me was dope on Lily’s murder.”

“I like you a lot.”

She kissed me. It was a brief, sisterly kiss. “That’s sweet, Berky. You think you have to ask me to go away with you because I saved your life. Only I’m going with Walter. That’s the only way it can work out for both of us.”

Abruptly her voice was harsh. She said, “Let’s go,” and swung away from me.

We found Walter in the kitchen. He stood at the sink, filling a glass with water. He drank it down without hurry-

“Bertha and I will go out first,” he said. “Wait a couple of minutes, kid. Don’s car is on Ninth Avenue. Don’t touch it. Keep going.”

Then they were gone through the back door. No farewell from Bertha. No final look back at me. She was gone with Walter.

I remained in the kitchen for the space of two hundred heartbeats. In the dark, littered yard I remembered that I had just closed the back door behind me. I returned and wiped both doorknobs and then groped my way up the narrow alley to Ninth Avenue.

